As explained in the Global Architecture chapter, each Pydio plugin is contributing to the framework via its manifest.xml declaration. Most important contributions are what we call "actions", that are defined inside the XML via the `<action name="action_name">` XML element.

This action_name parameter is our main identifier for triggering this command, whatever the API you are using. 

## Session-based API

The standard session-based API (used by the GUI) is passing a **get_action** parameter with this action name. Additional parameters would then depend on this **get_action** value. This session-based API is quite specific and requires a secure_token to be attached on each request. This is NOT the php session ID, but another identifier which is unique to a given instance of the GUI. This is required for CSRF protection. 

## Command Line PHP

As explained in the Administrator Guide, actions can also be triggered from the command line, using PHP CLI and loading the **/cmd.php** file. Action are in that case passed through the -a parameter, along with a repository id, users credential, and additional action parameters. The output is currently exactly the same as it would though an Http call.

To use the command line, make sure to follow this syntax : 

`php cmd.php -a=ACTION_NAME -u=USERNAME -p=PASSWORD -r=REPOSITORY --param1=value1 --param2=value2 --param3=value3`

Where REPOSITORY is either the ID or the ALIAS (slug) of the target workspace. 
Please note that first mandatory options are using SINGLE dash (-a, -u, -p, -r), and any additional parameter required by the action is using a double dash.

## RESTful API

The third way to trigger actions is to use the RESTful API. By default, it is accessible on **https://yourpydio/api/**. This is defined by the RewriteRule in .htaccess, so if you have issues accessing this endpoint, you may have a Rewrite issue.
For each action, if a “restParams” attribute is declared in its XML 'server callback', it is available through a REST call via 

`https://yourpydio/api/REPOSITORY/action_name/REST_PARAMS/` 

Where 
+ REPOSITORY is either the ID or the ALIAS of the target workspace.
+ REST_PARAMS can be a set of parameters values as defined by the restParams attribute in the XML . 
+ Additional POST/GET parameters can be posted to the request as well.

Authentification can be done in two ways: 
+ Using your standard Pydio user/password
+ Using an API Key/Secret couple as generated by the authfront.keystore plugin.


For example, the most simple action would be to list the content of folder "/my/folder" inside my personal workspace: 

The "ls" action is defined inside plugins/access.fs/fsActions.xml and declares a serverCallback with `restParams="/dir+"`, which means it will grab the whole path as a value for the `dir` parameter. The request would then look like : 

`https://yourpydio/api/my-files/ls/my/folder`

It will return an XML representation of the content of this folder: 

`
<tree filename="/my/folder">
    <tree filename="/my/folder/file1" [...]/>
    <tree filename="/my/folder/file2"/ [...]>
    [.etc..]
</tree>
`

## API Reference

There is a dedicated page listing all RESTfull endpoints that are accessible, it is generated dynamically from a running Pydio instance. Please see (https://pydio.com/en/docs/references/pydio-api)[https://pydio.com/en/docs/references/pydio-api]
