## ./cells-enterprise configure

Setup required configurations

### Synopsis


DESCRIPTION

  Launch the configuration process of Pydio Cells.

REQUIREMENTS

  You must have an available MySQL database, along with a privileged user (for instance 'pydio').
  Supported databases are:
   - MariaDB version 10.3 and above,
   - MySQL version 5.7 and above (except 8.0.22 that has a bug preventing Cells to run correctly).

  As recommended by database documentation, tune the 'max_connections' parameter to a value in line
  with your production database server specifications. For reference, the default value of 151 will have a 
  maximum memory usage of about 575MB, but will not scale up for a multiple users load in production.

BROWSER-BASED INSTALLER

  If you are on a desktop machine, pick browser-based installation at first prompt, or you can force it with:
  $ ./cells-enterprise configure --bind default
 
  The installer opens a web page on port 8080 with a wizard for you to provide various configuration parameters, 
  including DB connection info and the login/password of the main administrator.

  In case where default port is busy, you can choose another one via the 'bind' flag, for instance:
  $ ./cells-enterprise configure --bind 0.0.0.0:12345
  or   
  $ ./cells-enterprise configure --bind <your server IP or FQDN>:12345

  After browser configuration, all microservices are started automatically and you can directly start using Cells. 
  It is yet good practice to stop the installer and restart Cells in normal mode before going live.

COMMAND-LINE INSTALLER

  If you are more a shell person, you can perform the configuration process directly using this CLI (using the '--cli' 
  flag or by choosing so at first prompt). You will then be able to choose to either use the default bindings for the 
  embedded webserver or adapt these to your specific setup.
 
  You can always reconfigure the webserver bindings afterwards by calling this command:
  $ ./cells-enterprise configure sites
  See corresponding inline documentation for further details.

AUTOMATED PROVISIONING

  For automated, non-interactive installation, you can pass a YAML or a JSON config file that contains all necessary 
  information, please refer to the documentation on https://pydio.com

ENVIRONMENT

  All the command flags documented below are mapped to their associated ENV var using upper case and CELLS_ prefix.
  For example :
  $ ./cells-enterprise configure --bind :9876
  is equivalent to 
  $ export CELLS_BIND=":9876"; ./cells-enterprise configure

  For backward compatibility reasons, the --cli, --yaml and --json  flags do not respect the above rule (this might evolve in the 3.x version).
  They are respectively equivalent to CELLS_INSTALL_CLI, CELLS_INSTALL_YAML and CELLS_INSTALL_JSON ENV vars.

 

```
./cells-enterprise configure [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --bind string            Internal IP|DOMAIN:PORT on which the main proxy will bind. Self-signed SSL will be used by default
      --cli                    Do not prompt for install mode, use CLI mode by default
      --exit_after_install     Simply exits main process after the installation is done
      --external string        External full URL (http[s]://IP|DOMAIN[:PORT]) exposed to the outside
  -h, --help                   help for configure
      --json string            Points toward a configuration in JSON format
      --le_agree               Accept Let's Encrypt EULA
      --le_email string        Contact e-mail for Let's Encrypt provided certificate
      --no_tls                 Configure the main gateway to rather use plain HTTP
      --tls_cert_file string   TLS cert file path
      --tls_key_file string    TLS key file path
      --yaml string            Points toward a configuration in YAML format
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cells-enterprise](./cells-enterprise)	 - Secure File Sharing for business
* [./cells-enterprise configure db](./cells-enterprise-configure-db)	 - Manage Database configuration
* [./cells-enterprise configure license](./cells-enterprise-configure-license)	 - Update enterprise license
* [./cells-enterprise configure sites](./cells-enterprise-configure-sites)	 - Manage site addresses

###### Auto generated by Pydio Cells Enterprise Distribution v2.2.4 on 22-Mar-2021
