## ./cells-enterprise

Secure File Sharing for business

### Synopsis


DESCRIPTION

  Cells is a comprehensive sync & share solution for your collaborators. 
  Open-source software deployed on-premise or in a private cloud.

CONFIGURE

  For the very first run, use './cells-enterprise configure' to begin the browser-based or command-line based installation wizard. 
  Services will automatically start at the end of a browser-based installation.

RUN

  Run '$ ./cells-enterprise start' to load all services.

WORKING DIRECTORIES

  By default, application data is stored under the standard OS application dir : 
  
   - Linux: ${USER_HOME}/.config/pydio/cells
   - Darwin: ${USER_HOME}/Library/Application Support/Pydio/cells
   - Windows: ${USER_HOME}/ApplicationData/Roaming/Pydio/cells

  You can customize the storage locations with the following ENV variables : 
  
   - CELLS_WORKING_DIR: replace the whole standard application dir
   - CELLS_DATA_DIR: replace the location for storing default datasources (default CELLS_WORKING_DIR/data)
   - CELLS_LOG_DIR: replace the location for storing logs (default CELLS_WORKING_DIR/logs)
   - CELLS_SERVICES_DIR: replace location for services-specific data (default CELLS_WORKING_DIR/services) 

LOGS LEVEL

  By default, logs are outputted in console format at the Info level. You can set the --log flag or set the 
  CELLS_LOGS_LEVEL environment variable to one of the following values:
   - debug, info, error: logs are written in console format with the according level
   - production: logs are written in json format, to be used with a log aggregator tool.

SERVICES DISCOVERY

  Microservices use NATS as a registry mechanism to discover each other. Cells ships and starts its own NATS (nats.io) 
  implementation, unless a nats server is already running on the standard port, in which case it will be detected.


```
./cells-enterprise [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for ./cells-enterprise
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cells-enterprise admin](./cells-enterprise-admin)	 - Direct Read/Write access to Cells data
* [./cells-enterprise configure](./cells-enterprise-configure)	 - Setup required configurations
* [./cells-enterprise ps](./cells-enterprise-ps)	 - List all available services and their statuses
* [./cells-enterprise start](./cells-enterprise-start)	 - Start one or more services
* [./cells-enterprise tools](./cells-enterprise-tools)	 - Additional tools
* [./cells-enterprise update](./cells-enterprise-update)	 - Check for available updates and apply them
* [./cells-enterprise version](./cells-enterprise-version)	 - Print version information

###### Auto generated by Pydio Cells Enterprise Distribution v2.2.0-rc4 on 25-Jan-2021
