## ./cells-enterprise configure sites

Manage sites where application is exposed

### Synopsis


DESCRIPTION
  
  Manage how Cells is binding to network interfaces and how it is exposed to outside world.
  This is the main tool for listing, editing, adding and removing URLs. Additional sub-commands allow you to directly create/delete sites.
  
  Each site has following parameters:
   1. <Bind Host(s)>: one or more <ip/hostname:port> to hook the internal webserver to. 
   2. <TLS Settings>: TLS configuration for HTTPS support.
   3. <External URL>: the URL you communicate to your end-users. It can differ from your bind address, 
      typically if the app is behind a reverse-proxy or inside a container with ports mapping.
   4. <Maintenance Mode> [On|Off]: expose a maintenance page on this endpoint, although Cells is running.

EXAMPLES 

  1. Default value (used when no sites is configured)
    - Bind Host: 0.0.0.0:8080
    - TLS : SelfSigned
    - External URL: [left empty]
  
  2. Provided certificate
    - Bind Host: 0.0.0.0:8080
    - TLS : Your own key/cert pair
    - External URL: https://share.mydomain.tld
  
  3. Auto-ssl using Let's Encrypt 
    - Bind Host: share.mydomain.tld:443
    - TLS : LetsEncrypt
    - External Host: https://share.mydomain.tld
  
  4. Self Signed
    - Bind Host: IP:1515         # internal port
    - TLS : SelfSigned
    - External Host: https://IP:8080   # external port mapped by docker
  
  5. HTTP only
    - Bind Host: localhost:8080
    - TLS : Disabled
    - External Host: http://localhost:8080  # Non-secured local installation



```
./cells-enterprise configure sites [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for sites
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cells-enterprise configure](./cells-enterprise-configure)	 - Setup required configurations
* [./cells-enterprise configure sites add](./cells-enterprise-configure-sites-add)	 - Add a site
* [./cells-enterprise configure sites delete](./cells-enterprise-configure-sites-delete)	 - Remove a site by its index

###### Auto generated by Pydio Cells Enterprise Distribution v2.2.0-rc3 on 14-Jan-2021
