## S3 API

The [gateway package](https://github.com/pydio/cells/tree/master/gateway/data) provides an S3 API compatible gateway for serving files using the Amazon S3 protocol.

### Overview

The s3 gateway is based on a [Minio server](https://minio.io/) with a custom gateway and is registered as a Pydio Cells microservice named `pydio.grpc.gateway.data` and configured in the [plugins file](https://github.com/pydio/cells/tree/master/gateway/data).

**TODO: legacy approach, update** We use our own layer for authorization (using the JWT), so the API Keys / API Secret are not really used internally for authentication. For this reason, they are by default set to "gateway / gatewaysecret" and can be public.

The custom gateway provides access to the tree service and the various Cells datasources:

- for all "stat" and "list" related queries, it uses the `NodeProvider` interface of Tree service,
- for all "content" related queries (various `GET` and `PUT` request), it directly proxies to the underlying S3 server of each datasource.

### Usage

To connect to the Pydio S3 as you would for an amazon s3 bucket, your client will need to be set to use:

- The Pydio Cells url as custom url (typically, default URL points to Amazon servers based on the name of the bucket. Eg : the `johnsmith` bucket is expected to be found at `http://johnsmith.s3.amazonaws.com`)
- The Pydio Cells default bucket named `io`
- The Pydio Cells custom access key and secrets: use the JWT as the API Key, and `gatewaysecret` as the API Secret.


### Using Postman

Postman is a powerful client side application that can be use to debug and test communication with a server over TCP.

Below is an sample URL for accessing data from the object file `file.txt` in the personal workspace of a user in [the demo](http://demo.pydio.com):

`https://demo.pydio.com/io/personal-files-1/file.txt`

This URL is composed of the following components :  

- /io : the name of the bucket where data is exposed  
- /personal-files-1 : the "slug" of the workspace where the file is located.
- /file.txt : path of the file inside the workspace


Using Postman, you can use this URL to interact with this object. In order to be properly identified, you have to use the "Authorization" tab, choose AWS Signature and enter:

- AccessKey: `<JWT value>` (jwt retrieved with OpenID Connect request)
- SecretKey: `gatewaysecret` (this is a fixed value).

Then using the appropriate HTTP method, you can : 

- **HEAD** read metadata about the file
- **GET** download this file
- **PUT** upload data inside this file
- ... You can use all the Amazon S3 api in the same fashion.