Connect to a Pydio Cells server using the command line

### Synopsis


DESCRIPTION

  This command line client allows interacting with a Pydio Cells server via the command line. 
  It uses the Cells SDK for Go and the REST API under the hood.

  See the respective help pages of the various commands to get detailed explanation and some examples.

  *WARNING*: cec v4 only supports remote servers that are in v4 or newer. 

CONFIGURE

  For the very first run, use './cec config add' to begin the command-line based configuration wizard. 
  This will guide you through a quick procedure to get you up and ready in no time.

  Non-sensitive information are stored by default in a config.json file under /home/teamcity/.config/pydio/cells-client
  You can change this location by using the --config flag.
  Entered (or retrieved, in the case of OAuth2 procedure) credentials will be stored in your keyring.

  [Note]: if no keyring is found, all information are stored in clear text in the config.json file, including sensitive bits.

ENVIRONMENT

  All the command flags documented below are mapped to their associated ENV var, using upper case and CEC_ prefix.

  For example:
    $ ./cec ls --no_cache
  is equivalent to: 
    $ export CEC_NO_CACHE=true; ./cec ls
   
  This is typically useful when using the Cells Client non-interactively on a server:
    $ export CEC_URL=https://files.example.com; export CEC_TOKEN=<Your Personal Access Token>; 
    $ ./cec ls



```
./cec [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --config string     Location of Cells Client's config files (default: /home/teamcity/.config/pydio/cells-client/config.json)
  -h, --help              help for ./cec
      --login string      The user login, for Client auth only
      --no_cache          Force token refresh at each call. This might slow down scripts with many calls
      --password string   The user password, for Client auth only
      --skip_keyring      Explicitly tell the tool to *NOT* try to use a keyring, even if present. Warning: sensitive information will be stored in clear text
      --skip_verify       By default the Cells Client verifies the validity of TLS certificates for each communication. This option skips TLS certificate verification
  -t, --token string      A valid Personal Access Token (PAT)
  -u, --url string        The full URL of the target server
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cec clear](./cec-clear)	 - Clear all configuration
* [./cec completion](./cec-completion)	 - Add auto-completion helper to Cells Client
* [./cec config](./cec-config)	 - Manage authentication profiles
* [./cec cp](./cec-cp)	 - Copy files from A to B within your remote server
* [./cec idm](./cec-idm)	 - Identity Management commands
* [./cec info](./cec-info)	 - Display the active user, server and authentication type
* [./cec ls](./cec-ls)	 - List files in your Cells server
* [./cec mkdir](./cec-mkdir)	 - Create folder(s) in the remote server
* [./cec mv](./cec-mv)	 - Move and/or rename nodes on the server
* [./cec rm](./cec-rm)	 - Trash files or folders
* [./cec scp](./cec-scp)	 - Copy files from/to Cells
* [./cec share](./cec-share)	 - Share a single file or folder
* [./cec storage](./cec-storage)	 - Datasource commands
* [./cec update](./cec-update)	 - Check for available updates and apply them
* [./cec version](./cec-version)	 - Show Cells Client version information

###### Auto generated by Cells Client v4.1.0 on 21-Feb-2024
